Welcome back.
In order to finalize our understanding of modules we have to talk about an important concept which is
this idea of main or specifically underscore underscore main because as you start developing in your
career you're going to start to see a lot of code like this.
Now this is one of the most common lines you're going to see when working with Python.
And in this video I'm going to explain what it does because it is one of the most confusing topics especially
for beginners.
So for now I'm going to comment out and do a few things.
We have our main dot pi file here and I want to do a few things.
First I'm going to open up our shopping cart which is right here and at the top over here I'm just going
to print because right now our file isn't doing anything.
I'm going to say print underscore underscore name like this and I'm going to do the same for the utility
dogpile.
So at the top utility dot pi.
Now if I run main here let's click Run here
I get these two things printed.
Now why is that well when I run a python file and usually we just run one file write the main file that
we're working on in our case our main file just happens to be called Main dot pi.
So when I click Run the interpreter goes line by line through here.
The first thing it does is import the utility module and import these two files.
So what it's going to do is go to the utility file and run this and automatically each file that we
run or each module is given a name.
When our case is the name or the module utility.
So when you import something in Python it finds the module.
It runs a code so it adds this code to memory because we're going to have to use multiply divide Emacs
and then goes on to the next line.
In our case it's this one where we import again from the shopping cart.
So it's going to say Hey the name of this is shopping done more shopping dot shopping cart.
Because that's the module name.
And then finally it's going to go through here because by this point by line for these files have been
run in there in memory now.
Now the interpreter has access to divide multiply and all these functions that we've imported.
Now here's my question What if I do here or at the end do print underscore underscore name on this main
file if I run here you see that I get underscore underscore main is that what you expected.
What if I change the name of this file let's say refactor and say rename.
That's OK.
We want to rename it and we'll rename it to let's say test dot pi.
So now this is called test out pi.
What do you think the underscore name of this is if I run here I still get underscore underscore mean
so maybe this is turned to make sense now when you see the code.
This if underscore underscore name equals to underscore underscore main underscore.
So these are Dundas then do something and this the name main is given specifically to the file that
we run because remember when we run a file when I do play or when I do in my terminal Python 3 and then
say test dot Pi I run that one single file and that one single file imports different modules and runs
them that one file that we run gets this default underscore underscore me so the reason you might see
lines like this in Python is that sometimes we want to make sure that we run a module only if this is
the module or the main module so I can say here print please run this and let's remove this print for
now and click Run you see that this I get please run this but if I copy this code and let's say put
it into utility like this and I click Run you see that please run this does not appear in utility only
at the end when we're running this test because why.
Well the name of this file is not me.
The name remember is utility.
So this is a good way for us to only run code of the main file.
So this is a common structure as projects get bigger and bigger.
Maybe we have code that we don't want to run unless it's the main file in our case.
Let's say that we don't want to run any of these unless this is the main file being called.
If I run this now you see that.
Oh and I get an error.
It says line one in module cannot import name multiply from utility because well we aren't able to import
this because we didn't run this piece of code so let's revert that back come back here and while we
can do now is actually wrap this entire thing like this so that we make sure that test only runs if
well that only if this is the one being run it shouldn't get imported it should just be the main file
that we run.
Now remember when we had a class let's say we had a main file and we created a class let's say student
and this student let's say doesn't have anything but when we do type of student and we do print here
and I click Run well let's instantiate the students so let's say student 1 equals student and let's
just get the type of the student if I click run do you remember how we have this underscore underscore
mean dot student what it's saying is this class was created in the main file that we ran it for example
I copy this added it to the utility like this and now in my main file I import utility
and let's say utility dot SD 1 and do
and then print what will happen then.
Well we get class utility dot student
so whenever we saw that main all that it was saying is hey this was a class that was created in the
main file.
Again this is one of those things that you're going to see a lot of.
But at the end of the day all it means is I want to make sure that if this is the file that's being
run because a file can be either run or it can be imported if this is the file that gets run it's the
main file then do something.
So it's a good way to check how our modules are being used whether imported or rent hopefully that made
sense in the next video.
We're going to talk about something exciting called built in modules.
I'll see you on that one.
Bye.